Bundles vs Branded browsers in Playwright:

Great question — this is an important Playwright concept and often asked in interviews.

Let’s keep it very clear and simple.

✅ Bundled vs Unbundled Browsers in Playwright

Playwright can run two types of browsers:

🟢 1. Bundled Browsers (Default)

These are the Playwright-packaged versions of:

Chromium
Firefox
WebKit

When you run:

npx playwright install


Playwright downloads its own custom-built browsers.
Why?

Because:
They are optimized for automation
Have stable APIs
Have deterministic behavior

Support special features (protocol patches, tracing, HAR recording)

These are not the Chrome/Firefox you have installed on your machine.
They are separate, isolated, and used only by Playwright.

Example usage:
npx playwright test --project=chromium


Runs on Playwright's Chromium, not your system Chrome.

🔵 2. Unbundled (Branded System Browsers)

These are your actual installed browsers, like:
Google Chrome
Microsoft Edge
Chrome Canary
WebKit system browser (macOS only)

Playwright can run tests on these too.
How?

By specifying the browser channel:
projects: [
  {
    name: 'Google Chrome',
    use: { channel: 'chrome' }
  },
  {
    name: 'Microsoft Edge',
    use: { channel: 'msedge' }
  }
]

Why use unbundled?

To test exactly what end-users use
For compatibility testing
For testing Chrome-specific features (extensions, enterprise policies)

Example command:
npx playwright test --project="Google Chrome"


This will use your system-installed Chrome, not the Playwright-packaged one.

🔥 Bundled vs Unbundled — Summary Table
Feature	Bundled Browsers	Unbundled (System Browsers)
Installed via npx playwright install	✔ Yes	❌ No
Location	Inside Playwright folder	Installed by user
Stability	Very stable, controlled	Depends on user's version
Automation patches	✔ Yes	❌ No
Supports record, trace, HAR, advanced features	✔ Full support	Partial
Used by default	✔ Yes	❌ No
Examples	chromium, firefox, webkit	chrome, msedge, chrome-beta
🧠 Simple Analogy

Think of bundled browsers like a controlled testing lab
→ stable, predictable, identical for everyone.

Think of unbundled browsers like real-world environment testing
→ messy, different versions, but real.

🧩 Best Practice

Use bundled browsers for CI, automation suites (stable & fast).
Use unbundled browsers occasionally for real-browser validation.

